In object detection problems, there are two familiar approaches known as One-Stage
Detector and Two – Stage Detector. The two-stage object detection algorithm is known
for its high accuracy and delivers impressive results when dealing with small objects. The
two main tasks of two-stage object detection algorithms include region proposal and
object classification. A famous representative of the group of two-stage object detection
algorithms introduced earliest is R-CNN. R-CNN uses a selective search method to
generate region proposals and then uses a CNN convolutional neural network to extract
and classify features. There is no denying the incredible accuracy it brings, however, this
model requires consuming a large amount of computing resources. Another innovation
based on R-CNN is SPPNet (Spatial Pyramid Pooling Network). SPPNet works by
receiving variable-sized input images and thereby reducing computational resources. Fast
R-CNN has improved its architecture by directly using a region of interest (ROI) pooling
layer. This greatly improves the speed and accuracy of the algorithm because it eliminates
the need for external region proposal methods. Region Proposal Network (RPN)
introduced by Faster R-CNN, a model that achieves a balance between accuracy and
speed based on generating region proposals in the network and allowing it to train
overview.
Besides the benefits that two-stage object detection algorithms bring, they also have
some limitations. Because these algorithms are often very complex in their calculations
related to region proposal and object classification, the amount of resources and time
consumed in this process is huge. This is also the reason why these algorithms are limited
when used in real-time object recognition. Another problem is the instability in the region
proposal generation process. Inconsistent selections can easily cause problems such as
missing detections or false positives. In addition, small objects will cause difficulties for
algorithms, leading to missed or incorrect location of objects.
Because of some limitations of Two-Stage Detector algorithms when applied to realtime analysis, One-Stage Detector algorithms seem to be is a new and better direction for
this. By simultaneously performing classification and localization in a single pass, it has
demonstrated better speed and performance when applying real-time analysis and
recognition.
A famous representative of this group of algorithms is YOLO - You Only Look Once.
In 2015, the YOLO algorithm was first introduced, also known as YOLOv1 – the first
version of the YOLO model. YOLOv1's idea is to divide the image into grid cells,
locating and classifying objects at the same time based on the anchor boxes assigned to8
each grid cell. In exchange for shortening training and analysis time, its accuracy is
reduced when having to identify small objects. YOLOv2 (2016) also known as
YOLO9000, introduced that it improved the problem of small object detection through
applying Darknet-19 backbone network and anchor box. YOLOv3 generates more anchor
boxes and can detect multiple scales to improve detection accuracy. However, the new
problem now is that the objects in the real situation are obscured. YOLOv4 has enhanced
speed and accuracy by applying CIOU loss function, PANet and SAM module. With the
application of such new technologies, YOLOv4 has to trade off complexity and resources
for the computational phase. YOLOv5 uses a lightweight backbone network, combined
with model compression techniques that optimize speed and accuracy. YOLOv6 uses the
EfficientRep backbone, which enhances input representation and takes advantage of GPU
efficiency. The disadvantage of YOLOv6 is the difficulty in detecting objects that are
close together. YOLOv7 has improved the backbone to become EfficientNep – Lite – a
network architecture with a lighter size. In addition, YOLOv7 also uses PANet to
improve information fusion from different feature layers.
In general, current object detection algorithms are a trade-off between accuracy and
speed, depending on the appropriate use